XX read directly from Dropbox?

Dear Class, 

As you are collaborating with your group members on your project, here are some thoughts on how best to manage your workflow: 

1. Use Dropbox. Store *all* files relating to your project there, including your data, R code, and Markdown file(s). This will enable all group members, and me (or Nick) to see all of your files in real-time. In particular, this will make it easiest for Nick or me to help you with debugging your code, and organizing your data, since we can jump in exactly where you left off from our own machines. You will have to coordinate with your groupmates to make sure that you don't step on each other toes, but Dropbox will note file conflicts, and allows you to restore previous versions of files, so hopefully you won't lose anything. The downside is that all group members will have to install the local (desktop) version of R and RStudio on her personal computer. You'll have to decide whether the advantages outweight the disadvantages for you. 

2. Use the server version of RStudio. All group members will use the server version of RStudio, just as you have done all semester. I would still recommend storing your data files in Dropbox, since Dropbox provides a link that enables you to read.csv() over the Internet. An example of how to do this is in the merge and reshape tutuorial I posted earlier. The downside to this approach is that it will be harder for us to help with debugging, and harder for you to share what you are working on. 

Also, if you have not started a Markdown file yet, please do so! This will streamline your work going forward, and again, makes it easier for all parties (students or instructors) to stay on the same page. 



Some students are having trouble importing their data files into Dropbox. Here is an example of how to do this:

url = "http://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/xgdq73yod1w79av/WomenInParliament.csv"
ds = read.csv(url)
head(ds)

Two pieces of information are critical to making this work:

1. Make sure that you are using "http" instead of "https"

2. Make sure that your URL is coming from the domain "dl.dropboxusercontent.com". [Note that this is different than in the tutorial I posted, wherein the domain was "dl.dropbox.com"] If your domain is "www.dropbox.com", then this is not the right URL.

So how do you find the right URL?

1. Some users will be able to right-click on the file on their local machine and select "Share Link". But all users will be able to go the the Dropbox website, and navigate to the file you want to import. Don't click directly on the file name, but move the mouse to the right-hand side of the screen, and their should be a chainlink icon that says "Share Link" when you mouse over.

2. Click on this, and then click "Get Link".

3. Then, right-click on the blue Download button and select "Copy Link Location".

4. Paste the URL into your Markdown file.

5. Change the beginning, which says "https://" to "http://"

6. (optional) You can remove everything in the URL that comes after the "?"

This method should work -- I've tested it on multiple files. Please let us know if you continue to run into trouble.

Best,

-Prof. Baumer
